r/RPI — Sodexo
Posted by ewizard09 (MECL 2015), 13 years ago (47 upvotes, 40 comments)

Something needs to be done about Sodexo's changes this year. Every dining hall except for Commons no longer has trays. The food options seem to be more limited everywhere, especially at Blitman. Half the menu has disappeared from Blitman. On top of that the ordering system in Blitman is frankly awful and does not make any sense. From what I understand all of this is to save money and get students to waste less food, yet the meals plans are still the same price. Sodexo plans on saving money yet charges the same amount? We've filled out literally hundreds of comment cards but not a single one has a response. What can we do to change the dining halls back to the way they were last year?

[deleted] (43 upvotes)
If only student government wasn't a pointless exercise in people trying to inflate their egos.

zander3 (1 upvote)
They're trying to do something right now, Kyle (Student Life Chair) is going to bring up the tray issue to the senate.

K_Keraga — CS 2015 | ΔΦ | 149th Grand Marshal (1 upvote)
Yeah I'm bringing this up in Senate's FSC (formerly FFA) on Thursday, and we'll do what we can. I'll keep you guys updated on how this goes.

JocelyntheGinger — MATH 2016 (17 upvotes)
We could try issueing a statement of dissatisfaction. Kind of like a petition, but without a clear-cut "do this" statement.
Basically we right up a letter saying how upset we are with the changes, and then get tons of signatures.

[deleted] (6 upvotes)
And let's impeach Shirley while we're at it

[deleted] (11 upvotes)
I have had numerous experiences with Sodexo when eating elsewhere was inconvenient/unavailable and was appalled at the service and quality. I am truly sorry for those that must rely on them for daily sustenance.

carpy22 — ECON 2012 (26 upvotes)
You aren't getting the service you signed up for. Demand a refund.

shortkid4169 — MECL 2014ish (8 upvotes)
I bet they will give it to you, but they will also stop giving you food. Which is probably a problem for a lot of people on campus.
(I'm off campus, but I still think the changes are pretty terrible)

carpy22 — ECON 2012 (7 upvotes)
For the price of one swipe at commons you can eat like a king from off-campus eateries.

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (4 upvotes)
I'm curious, if you demand a refund but you're a second-year student, what happens? You HAVE to be on a meal plan, but you're also not being rendered the services you signed up for.
I'm actually fairly certain that if you're a first year student you don't have a claim (since you had never been rendered these services before). For second-year students they will likely be told that they cannot be offered a refund since they are contractually obligated to these services. At best they will bump you to the lowest meal plan.

ktnoll12 — BME 2015 (9 upvotes)
I talked to a worker in BARH. Commons is losing its trays in January. They will turn the dish return into a conveyor belt so trays won't be needed. Which will apparently save money, even though they have to install the belt. Also be nice to the dining hall workers. They have no say in this and a lot of them are just as annoyed as we are.

ewizard09 (OP) — MECL 2015 (2 upvotes)
You have got to be fucking kidding me. Does congress run Sodexo now?

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (9 upvotes)
Interestingly enough, in the meal plan contract it has the line:
"All Rensselaer policies and procedures, existing and as changed from time to time, contained in the current Rensselaer Catalog, and other Rensselaer and Student Life publications, including the 2013-2014 price list, are part of this agreement and must be read by all students." Source: Sodexo Meal Plan Agreement
So according to that, the price list for meal plans contained in the the Rensselaer Catalog is part of the agreement. So I went over and looked in there and found that the prices listed in the 2013-2014 Rensselaer Catalog are ~$200 cheaper than what Sodexo is billing.
Anyone know contract law?

trappe-ist — ARCH *IN LABAN WE TRUST* 2014 (8 upvotes)
I expect the Blitman system to go down in a welter of flames during their first heavy rush.
New idea: Mob Blitman.

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (6 upvotes)
What exactly changed at Blitman? I haven't eaten there since Fall 2011.

trappe-ist — ARCH *IN LABAN WE TRUST* 2014 (7 upvotes)
The buzzers have been replaced with numbers on sticks; you can order one item per number; a staff member will bring the item out and return the number-on-stick. Should you want more than one item, you must take more than one stick.
There are several procedural issues here. First is the fact that this permits a maximum of 99 standing orders to be out at any one time. This is problematic as Blitman itself holds well over 99 diners and fills to capacity between 6:15 and 6:45-which means that, at any one time, only one half of the diners will be in the process of receiving food.
The second is that it requires far more of the staff, as they must now hunt down the number in a sea of visual clutter and then walk the food out to it. (As we have seen in the past, certain Blitman staff members have quite enough to kvetch about.) This would be acceptable in a proper restaurant, where people tend only to order one entree and remain at table for awhile-and to tip the staff. Blitman is none of these. Tables occupied by athletes and fraternity brothers consume startling quantities of foods, and the staff have better things to do than to run around endlessly trying to figure out where #72 has ended up now.
I would also note that the walk-up to collect one's food also made it easy to go apply dressings/condiments/such things without having to jump into and out of conversations repeatedly.
TL;DR: Sticks with numbers lead to serving shortages and needlessly exhausted staff. Thus, I suggest giving the system a baptism by fire: Mob Blitman.
I would also note that I went off the meal plan this year (took me long enough) and am kicking myself as to why I didn't sooner.

lahnabonny — ARCH 2014 (5 upvotes)
I hope this is a joke. Numbers on sticks? Like popsicle sticks? What was wrong with the buzzers?

B33TL3Z — DSIS 2019 (1 upvote)
Nah. It's more like... 1.5' high metal sticks with plasticy cards at the end.
I WOULD like to correct trappe-ist, though, as the Sticks w/Numbers is a dinner only thing. Breakfast is still buzzers.

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (4 upvotes)
Ah Sodexo. They specialize in finding efficiencies and eliminating them.

Roberek — CS 2015 (6 upvotes)
This is what I'd suggest (I'm a junior who just cancelled his meal plan). Juniors and Seniors cancel your plans, and put some of the money into RAD or just use the money elsewhere (RAD is tax-free, keep in mind). First and second year students can just downgrade to the cheapest plan.

jayjaywalker3 — BIO/ECON 2012 (2 upvotes)
Make sure you communicate why you chose this route. Double points if you make do it publicly.

Roberek — CS 2015 (2 upvotes)
That's true, I did put in a lengthy note in my cancellation form. Maybe we can start some sort of on-campus anti-sodexo club?

rpi_sodexo (1 upvote)
DON'T DO THAT. THAT WOULD MAKE TOO MUCH SENSE!

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (1 upvote)
At this point you can only cancel your meal plan at an arbitrary pro-rated amount. After Friday it was no longer possible to downgrade.

rpi_sodexo_fan — GSAS 2012 (1 upvote)
Per say.

kepnid — MECL 2015 (11 upvotes)
Another few points to add on why this is happening. Sodexo is trying to "be greener" (ie cut costs) by taking away trays. With this in mind, they also hope to reduce the amount of food waste that is accumulated each day since people who can fill a tray will often fill it more than they need (please dont tell me you dont have a friend who wastes tons of food). Also, Blitman menu and ordering system has altered because we are being tested as part of Sodexo's on campus program to see the viability of a set down restaurant style feel, where you instead order a full plate of food. Remember that with change takes time to work out the kinks, especially when we are one of 30 campuses with a blitman ordering style and they are trying to roll out new ideas to make it even better.

LovesRPI (8 upvotes)
Several things you could do:
Complain. Go beyond comment cards. Be polite and respectful, and try to arrange meetings with Sodexo people.
Write a letter to the editor in the Poly. More administration officials, alumni, and powerful people read that than those people read reddit.
Talk to student government, particularly FFA. Now that we have a GM who actually knows what he's doing, maybe something can happen.
Stage a protest. We haven't had anything since Uprise at Five that I know of. ARG was dumb. Make sure your GPA is top notch so you don't get kicked out.

another_nigerian — AERO 2e11-2e5 (3 upvotes)
The longer I go here, the more I realize what a gigantic ripoff this school is. Were it not for the close friends and brothers I've made, and perhaps the name recognition this school affords potential employers, I'd have transferred long ago.
This is just another change implemented for the purpose of increasing profits for the school's monopolistic food service, which would be illegal anywhere but a private institution. We can all whine and grumble and write letters until we're blue, but at the end of the day, RPI, and sodexo, simply don't care about things like this. In the grand scheme, undergrads are at the very bottom of the totem pole. This is a research school, and making sure that we're happy and stuffed with tasty things is far from important to the powers that be.
Change will happen, and yes, we're all powerless to do anything about it. You can say we're not and that enough action or protest will change things, but seriously -- for every one of us that cancels a meal plan or writes a letter, there's a dozen happy clueless freshman silently, merrily munching on disgusting commons fries, lining Sodexo's pockets.

truthfulstudent (5 upvotes)
Ban Sodexo

zander3 (2 upvotes)
I made a thread about the trays a while back, this is getting way out of hand.
http://www.reddit.com/r/RPI/comments/1l5rjv/no_trays_at_sage_dining_hall/

rpionion — CS (2 upvotes)
No more trays? But... free sleds...

ewizard09 (OP) — MECL 2015 (1 upvote)
I've hit 57 mph on a tray from commons. They don't hold up well.

[deleted] (-1)
A real engineer would have used the metric system.

orangeturtle411 (1 upvote)
As someone who went to another school for undergrad... I agree with you guys on everything except the trays... I'm surprised that you guys even had trays as I was fairly certain that not having trays was the norm rather than the exception for most colleges now?

ccarus — AERO/MECL 2008 (1 upvote)
Since the school year is starting, is it too late to cancel a meal plan for a full or pro-rated refund? Are freshman still the only ones required to have a meal plan?

pr0grammer — CS 2014.5 (2 upvotes)
Freshmen, sophomores, and anyone living in BARH are required to have a meal plan: http://reslife.rpi.edu/update.do?artcenterkey=156
The deadline for cancellations and downgrades of meal plans has passed already. I'm not sure about a pro-rated refund; I wasn't able to find anything online that mentioned one. http://j2ee.rpi.edu/swf/setup.do?target=diningPlanCancellation

kevinoconnor7 — CS 2014.5 (1 upvote)
Logically, the details about canceling a meal plan are on the page where you sign up for a meal plan.
Refund schedule for after August 26, 2013:
Less than one week: 0% charged / 100% refunded per semester
Less than two weeks: 10% / 90%
Less than three weeks: 20% / 80%
Less than four weeks: 30% / 70%
Less than six weeks: 40% / 60%
Less than seven weeks: 50% / 50%
Less than nine weeks: 60% / 40%
More than nine weeks: 100% / 0%
You also cannot downgrade a meal plan after the first Friday after classes start.
tl;dr: Sodexo doesn't understand how to pro-rate.
