Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Reviews
4 Year — Troy, NY
Overall rating: 3.61 out of 5 (1,162 reviews)

Rating 3 out of 5 — Freshman, a month ago
Academics are good. You have easy access to your professors since class sizes are small. Arts ad sciences is SOOOO SMALL. They tell you it's small, but you don't realize how small it actually is until you get there. Social life does not really exist. a lot of connections are formed through clubs but those clubs don't really have events so you have to get in at the beginning of the year.

Rating 3 out of 5 — Freshman, 2 months ago
-good academics
-lots of resources for academic help
-downtown Troy is very nice and accessible
-some professors have amazing office hours

Rating 4 out of 5 — Graduate Student, 2 months ago
Good but super boring. No social life and the attendance to the athletics games were very subpar. But the degree carries alot of weight.

Rating 3 out of 5 — Alum, 2 months ago
It's a beautiful campus which is part industrial-modern, part historical and it takes pride on the numerous accomplishments of long list of alumni. Barely missing out on ivy-league status due to it's low-level football team, what really matters is the rigorous academics taught by professors who are more interested in their research. RPI does support government research in some of it's labs with support from some students. Some tenured professors "teach" only so they can continue to participate in this research. Additionally as any good professor, some also write the textbooks they require and produce a "new" version every year which is required for the course. Another frustration is with the administration. Every fall, The Poly (school newspaper) would announce tuition increase of 5% because other universities were doing so. Not for student housing renovations or expansion of some other student support. Because "everyone else was doing it" so to speak.

Rating 2 out of 5 — Sophomore, 4 months ago
If you are a woman and understand that you're deserving of safety, respect, and being taken seriously, do not attend this school. Officials at this school will not adequately handle harassment, assault, or rape. In freshman year alone almost every girl I have spoken to, as someone who is highly socially involved, has had an experience with some form of harassment at the very least. ROTC and the athletics departments will be deal with the men who pose threats to safety, but the school will not remove them from their victims lives. At least a dozen men in the co 2029 have allegations and documented harassment towards women noted against them. This school will at the least deny, and allegedly delete, evidence of cornering, harassing, and so on, when relayed. You will not be taken seriously, you will be told you don't have enough evidence for a complaint, and no contact orders will not hold up the way they're supposed to. The scholarships are great, but your safety isn't worth it.

Rating 2 out of 5 — Alum, 4 months ago
RPI offers a rigorous STEM-focused education with strong research opportunities and industry connections. The workload is demanding, and the campus community is highly driven. Some may find the academic pressure intense, but those who thrive enjoy access to solid resources and a respected degree. Campus life and location in Troy, NY have their pros and cons. Overall, a solid choice for students passionate about engineering and technology.

Rating 3 out of 5 — Freshman, 7 months ago
It's a difficult school, obviously, which is something I didn't realize going into it, but they made it very obvious to me very quickly. The classes I take are significantly more challenging than some AP-level or college courses I took in high school, and probably more challenging than they would've been at a state school, but it's definitely worth it. A lot of the professors I've met so far take the time to get to know me and help me understand things if I take the time to meet with them and express my difficulties/grievances first. It's a small campus, which some people may not like because you're seeing the same people frequently, but it's nice in a way. It's very familiar and "homey" for lack of better wording. There are some shortcomings, as every college has, like the overall location and the food, and the housing, but in sum, I think it really is an amazing school with some great opportunities.

Rating 3 out of 5 — Sophomore, 8 months ago
I am a current sophomore at RPI. I feel like I will be able to get a job pretty easily coming out of college, but I have to work ridiculously hard to get good grades. I basically have to choose between studying, having a life outside of school, and sleep (I do not sleep much). I am actively working to improve the school through student government, so I have some complaints that I would like to fix. For one, the FIXX services are not amazing. A friend of mine had a mouse in her dorm last year and was told to wait three days before they could remove it. I have texture issues with food and, as a result, lost a lot of weight from not eating last year. Some professors are not very accommodating to my reading learning disability. On the other hand, I feel like I really fit in and have met amazing friends. I have joined the right clubs and feel welcomed and supported by my fellow students. If you come to RPI, your experience is very much what you make of it.

Rating 5 out of 5 — Junior, 9 months ago
RPI was and is a truly amazing experience. I have truthfully enjoyed every second I have spent here. I have seen a lot of other colleges, and this one takes the cake in every respect. Definitely the school for you if you are up for a little challenge with the perk of meeting the best people you will ever meet.

Rating 5 out of 5 — Senior, 9 months ago
I absolutely love it here. I really like my program and have found a great community. People are really collaborative and willing to help each other out, even other majors or years. The program is definitely rigorous, but it only brings people together more. There are tons of opportunities for hands-on experience within all majors. Professors are super nice and accommodating to different students and their needs. They're also really passionate about their work and like having undergraduates who are interested in research. Diversity isn't the best, but I've never felt like it's a big problem as a woman. I've always felt welcome. The university fosters a good student/campus life, holding lots of free events to socialize and learn. The food and on-campus housing are eh. They're truly nothing special, but also not terrible. I always found something I liked, even with my allergies. The surrounding area is nice once you get to know it. There's lots of niche cool spots and neighborhoods.

Rating 5 out of 5 — Junior, 9 months ago
I have found my home here. RPI is very great. Professors are mainly wonderful, with the exception of a few who do not respect students at all and purely view them as someone who provides their paycheck. Food can widely be improved, especially for those with allergies, since RPI claims to offer such a wide variety, make sure that carries over to the allergen/dietary restriction rooms/cuisine options as well.

Rating 4 out of 5 — Junior, 9 months ago
As a HASS major it's hard to find others who are HASS majors but in the end everyone is a nerd and enjoyable to talk to.

Rating 5 out of 5 — Freshman, 10 months ago
Great school, every professor is very understanding and kind. The people I've met have been amazing friends!

Rating 5 out of 5 — Freshman, 10 months ago
I enjoy the challenging academics at RPI. It is a great school filled with amazing people. The food and dorms aren't amazing, but I feel like that is the experience no matter where you go to college.

Rating 5 out of 5 — Freshman, 11 months ago
The first year experience was quite good. It made transitioning from higschool to college quite easy

Rating 4 out of 5 — Junior, 12 months ago
If you want to go into engineering this is the school to be at for challenging and rewarding curriculum. Graduates are in high demand from this school

Rating 5 out of 5 — Sophomore, 12 months ago
Consider this school if you are ready for a challenge and want to go into a lot of research or use a lot of labs. Everyone is right about how hard this school can be, but it is for the people that are ready to study, think about their future, and are willing to put themselves out their for opportunities that may come their way. If your major requires a lot of hands-on or lab experience, RPI will make sure you get a lot of that experience. Doing research as an undergraduate student is also very important at RPI and will have many opportunities to do so, but you must be willing to reach out and ask a lot of questions. Professors and researchers love when others will ask questions because it will show interest in what they are doing.

Rating 3 out of 5 — Sophomore, 12 months ago
I was a business major at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute which was a rather niche major at the school as it is a STEM focused school. As a business major you get a lot of exposure in a lot of STEM related courses which I definitely liked a lot and you are going to be more connected to companies that specialize more in STEM. Campus itself is very nice but the buildings are very old with few newer buildings which are only for engineering majors. Business majors definitely feels more neglected compared to other majors while computer science and engineering have very good job outlook for people who graduate as their program is well respected and rigorous. What I would like to see change is definitely more renovations and better food in the dining halls where they keep their consistency everyday. Every building is pretty old and wished that computer science courses are easier with more resources for students to succeed in their courses because as a business major it was a difficult course

Rating 5 out of 5 — Senior, June 30 2025
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute offers a rigorous academic experience and plentiful opportunities to engage in research. Student life is easy to get involved with, and there are always activities in and around campus. However, administration is slow to respond to and often dismissive of student body requests for campus improvement and policy change. Despite student protests, a recent policy change added staff oversight to the student government. Overall, RPI is an excellent school where I've made some of my closest friends, but I would like to see some administrative changes to be more responsive to student insight.

Rating 4 out of 5 — Sophomore, June 27 2025
My experience would be different from yours, an upcoming student, but through the bad food and bad housing, I met great and funny people. I tried new things; I learnt new things and experienced new things, and I don't think I would have done that without the people I met on campus. Everyone's experience will be different, but it is all based on how you look at it. Find the joy through the misery of it all, and things will be fine.

Rating 2 out of 5 — Junior, June 19 2025
I like that there are always events, so you can never be bored if you choose. There is almost always something to do on campus. I do not like that they are always school type events without the freedom. the food is very bad.
