r/RPI — how's the food
Posted by khadxu, 4 years ago (15 upvotes, 26 comments)

[deleted] (17 upvotes)
Aside from breakfast, it's mid but I could feed myself, my dog, and my entire family for the amount it comes to per month lol. Get off the meal plan when you can. Lost 15 lbs the first semester cause it made me sick all the time cause everything used to be cooked with/in canola oil.
(2nd sem junior year, unfortunately, because ARCH. Unless you have documented health/financial reasons you can appeal for.)

thisismyaltbtw (12 upvotes)
When parents visit, or prospective students are visiting? Fantastic.
For normal days I'd say, 'not great, not terrible.'

redfesfin — MTLE 2024 (27 upvotes)
Mid but it's convenient. Dining halls helped me put on some extra weight that I was longing for in high school since I was skinny AF back then. You can definitely make it work! Cooking your own food is my preference, but let's be realistic. You might not have the most free time to cook three meals a day 😂

[deleted] (12 upvotes)
I'd pick and choose my battles. Breakfast is worse compared to lunch and dinner because breakfast is the same 3-4 things every day.

Aquatiac (4 upvotes)
If i get there early enough for the omelettes i really like breakfast, its very worth it

1papaya-2papaya (3 upvotes)
they have omelettes?!

Zombieattackr (1 upvote)
Not applicable to most people obviously, but Blitman breakfast is pretty sweet imo. A rotation of waffles, pancakes, French toast, etc with sausage and potatoes. Kinda repetitive, but I don't really mind, it's totally saved by the amazing berry sauce they usually have for it. (Plus you can get donuts/pastries, cereal, fruit, and yogurt.)

Zombieattackr (3 upvotes)
Especially freshman year, 7am to 11pm??? Like 100-300 feet way from your door??? I loved my late night burgers lmao (even if they can be high key trash, it's good to have an option that late). And this year I hang out in JEC a lot so I love stopping by RSDH for a quick ice cream and cookie/brownie.
Once you're off campus and actually have the ability to really cook, of course drop the meal plan. But while on campus, it's a huge time saver.
Overall quality is mid/good. A few times it's been borderline inedible. Certain things are absolutely top tier. Most of the time it's mid/slightly good, just a slight bit above what I would consider average dining hall food. It's pretty easy to avoid the times and places where it's trash (except 10:30 commons burgers, those buns go stale af, but hey, it's something). Just learn the times and places with your favorites and you'll have top tier meals pretty consistently.

Newt_IXC — CompBio/ECON 2026 (16 upvotes)
yea some good some pretty mid, but yea like another comment it is convenient and you can eat as much as you want

2sus — ITWS 2023 (14 upvotes)
I think its horrible honestly but probably on par with other schools. I lost 25lbs first semester freshman year bc i hated eating commons food :(

blitzionic (5 upvotes)
Food here at RPI is absolutely atrocious. It is nearly inedible most of the times. Commons is a buffet-style dining area where they serve food at different stations and you can get whatever they are serving. The food is awfully cooked and horribly prepared. The quality and taste of the food they make is horrendous. It doesn't look like they've ever planned on making their food taste any better. I've been bothered by the food since the very beginning of freshmen year. This attitude isn't just from me; most of the people I've talked to know how bad the food is at both Commons and Sage dining halls (yes, the only two availible options on campus). Even the paid restuarants at the Student Union serve God-awful food that don't justify the price we paid. The $10 ramen you pay for is absolute garbage and Halal Shack is mediocre at best. You would think RPI would help you with dining options but they simply don't care.
As a student-athlete, you expect to eat a healthy diet but the dining halls at RPI simply do not meet your basic standards.
Check out this article by the Polytechnic: https://poly.rpi.edu/opinion/2023/04/rpi-failure-to-feed/
Behind the walls of the dining halls at RPI are dirty kitchens, unorganized workers, and a wicked food council that serves the bare minimum of what you would call "food".
I've visited several other schools and (MIT, CMU, UC's) and all of them have food courts that serve delicious and fullfilling entrees. I just don't understand why the people who run RPI can allow this to happen.
If food is a make or break factor for your college decisions, I implore you to not choose RPI. You will regret coming here not because of the rigorous academics, but because you will starve.

Witch_King_ (9 upvotes)
Standard college fare

Gooddj9000 (4 upvotes)
The food is usually a mixed bag. Can be good sometimes and can be horrendous other times. Imo I would rank it as: Breakfast, Dinner, Lunch; in order of how consistently good it is. I will say always check any bread or sandwiches for green spots tho. I've seen multiple cases of moldy English muffins

122kooolo (4 upvotes)
Hot take: commons was actually pretty good. Wasn't as great during the covid semesters, but I've heard that the options have become a lot better now.

RPI_PERVERT (4 upvotes)
I hear it ranges from unstimulating to pretty good for the general student body, but beware if you're a CS major, as CS majors get a special diet of exclusively cold brew java and python meat. Since CS is our most popular major, the school uses the CS diet and Data Structures to weed out those who aren't truly invested, so in the end only the strong survive.

Puppyboy2003 — ENGR 2026 (7 upvotes)
This is mostly a review of Commons Dining hall, but mostly applies to other dining halls.
The food (at it's best) is worse than Georgia Tech, Boston College, American University, and Bentley (at their worst). (I was at summer camps at all those places, and they were on their respective versions of short staff mode)
It is one of, if not the most disappointing aspect of RPI.
I don't know what they call it, but from Friday through Sunday they are on low give a shit mood. Barely half of the stuff is open, and what is open is usually awful. The most stricking thing is why Friday? It is still a weekday Rensselaer Dining!
During the week, usually 1-5 meals I literally can't find anything edible for me (I am a bit of a picky eater, but sometimes everything looks like it will obliterate your bowels.)
It is a running joke with me and my friends of how bad it is. We just sarcastically go "Rensselaer Dining".
Sometimes they make some really mediocre stuff tho, so it isn't always awful, but it's inconsistent at best.
In addition, before the semester started, I was warned not to eat the burgers by an upperclassman as they literally gave people food poisoning. They responded with the mentality "well then, I might as well burn the shit out of it, turning it to dust." I personally call the burgers ash, and the taste is not far off.
Every other school (higher level, or primary) got the ritual down pat. Sell mediocre burgers (which is leagues above ash), crap pizza, some type of noodles, some type of fries, some type of chicken, and if you have the time, something special. Every day, seven (5) days a week. So at least if you don't like what is special today, you got something to eat. Rensselaer Dining decides to say fuck that and does something special every day (Mon-thurs; when they give a shit). And often, there is just nothing appealing. That chicken breast is just fat, that rice some how went bad, and you are just pouring what is essentially just water on it.
It is so bad on the weekend that I try getting something take out and eat leftovers for the three days.
But it isn't all bad. Commons Dining hall specifically has 2 great things (but I will rant about their downfalls):
A noodle bar (on the days they give a shit mon-thurs). You pick toppings, sauce, meats; they cook it in front of you; it's good shit. But those poor souls are overworked, especially whenever management tells them to work by themselves. In addition, as amazing as this is, it easily could be replaced by a self serve noodle station (with warmed noodles) and the staff could take a breath. But since it isn't, these people have to reheat so many noodles for people. In addition, since it's so popular, the line is always so long, so it often isn't feasible to get that.
2) U-Cook. You cook. That's it. And it is the shit. But it is handled all wrong. For one, most of the ingredients in the station have been sitting there all day, possible multiple days, so they become inedible. In addition, they don't want you to get fat, so they don't have useful things like... Butter. You have to go all the way to the breakfast bagel station to steal some butter (and the salad bar thing to steal fresher and diverse ingredients, and the sandwich bar if you dare using the meat that has been there for weeks). Also, many people resort to asking the servers for things like rice as they don't put that out for us.
Also, we are College kids, so we can be trusted with sharp items, right? Especially since there is someone right outside the station to make sure you don't do something stupid. Right? Nope, no knifes. And the sign, if I can remember correctly says that the justification is "we wouldn't want you to hurt yourself." Bruh, most people have been using some sort of knife since they were 12, don't talk to me like I just learned to wipe my ass. I would even be happy if they just give us slightly shaper butter knifes (and some sort of cutting board.)
But surprisingly, that is not the worst part of U-Cook. You know when the best time for this service would be? On the weekend, when Rensselaer Dining is on their no fucks mode. Then you can at least make yourself something edible. Guess when that place isn't open. Yeah, on the low give a shit days. Wtf Rensselaer!?!?
Back to the dining hall. Oh also, you would imagine that the dining hall is for students right? It's sole purpose of existence is to provide nutrience to RPI students and daring staff, right? Wrong! My last day of finals, I was hoping to get some mediocre shit after my rough final. But they were fucking closed for a private event. I would like to know what RPI was thinking. We were forced to pay for a meal plan, and whenever they want, they can say fuck you and close it off... ❤️ U Rensselaer Dining.
My verdict: is that it isn't the staff's fault. They are mostly kind and helpful. I blame two things, one is RPI for not caring about what they feed us.
But the second, and most important person to blame is the the dietarian. They have her picture rotate on the little information screen at the hall, and all it does is provide me with a battle cry. Maybe I am making too many assumptions, but I would guess she doesn't have to eat the shit she concocts. So, she can make the hall as inedible as possible, and she couldn't care less as she doesn't touch it. Imo, if my assumptions are correct, she should be required to sample the food she is having served, and see how many items are returned to the dish carousel with just one bite taken out. Make her rethink her choices.
What could be done: bring in anyone competent from any other school and allow them to make any changes, and have student feedback about the changes.
Thanks for listening to my Ted talk, and allowing me a space to spread my gospel.
Edit: This is in reference to any food payable by your meal swipe things. The payed food (in the Union, or nearby camps) is pretty good. And that is probably why they make the "free" food so awful.

jimmystar889 — ECSE 2022 (2 upvotes)
Pretty good tbh

Puppyboy2003 — ENGR 2026 (4 upvotes)
You monster. Where do you eat...

jimmystar889 — ECSE 2022 (2 upvotes)
Commons

Puppyboy2003 — ENGR 2026 (2 upvotes)
Just. How.

kapeab_af — AERO 2024 (2 upvotes)
Make sure to go to BARH. Especially on the weekends. Staff and food are always great back when I used to be on meal plan. If you go to commons it's pretty repetitive

Jupiter_Jordan (2 upvotes)
Barh is closed on the weekends except for brunch

Jupiter_Jordan (3 upvotes)
Food is disgusting. Every now and then they'll pull something good out of thin air. But word to the wise, always check to see if your meat is raw.

keepright64 (4 upvotes)
Gross lmao

UnderstandingOdd6443 (2 upvotes)
Garbage

lambdafx — BS/MS CSCI 2022
terrible
